- Imagine that you have a toy truck that you really like to play with, and you want to share it with your friend who lives far away. However, you can't just give them the truck because they're too far away to reach it.

So instead, you decide to put the truck in a special box, and you give the box to your mom or dad to mail to your friend. But there's a problem: your friend's parents won't let them open boxes that they don't recognize or know who it's from.

To solve this problem, you create a label for the box that says "Toy Truck Inside" and give your friend's parents a special secret code. When they see the label and type in the secret code, they can open the box and get the truck out.
## In more technical way
- port forwarding is a technique used in computer networking to forward incoming network traffic to a specific port on a computer or device in a private network.
- To forward incoming network traffic to a specific device on a private network, a router can be configured to map a specific external port to a specific internal IP address and port.
- For example, let's say you have a web server running on a computer on your home network, and you want to make it accessible from the internet so people can view your website. By default, incoming traffic to your home network is blocked by the router's firewall, so you need to configure port forwarding to allow incoming traffic on port 80 (the standard port for web traffic) to be forwarded to the internal IP address of your web server on port 80.
- In summary, port forwarding is a way to forward incoming network traffic from a specific external port to a specific internal IP address and port, allowing devices on a private network to be accessible from the internet.
- Consider host A, host B (in the middle), and host C. Host A should connect to host C in order to do something, but if for any reason it's not possible, host B can directly connect to C. If we use host B in the middle, to get the connection stream from A and pass it to B while taking care of the connection, we say host B is doing port forwarding. This is how things will appear on the wire—host B is running a software that opens a TCP listener on one of its ports, say, port 20. Host C is also running a listener that is used to connect to host B when a packet arrives from port 20. So, if A sends any packet on port 20 of B, it will automatically be forwarded to host C. Hence, host B is port forwarding its packets to host C.